New and updated docs for HIS Designer for Logic Apps and 3270 Design Tool (#935)
MicrosoftDocs/biztalk-docs: his/core/application-integration-la3270apps.md

ms.prod: host-integration-server
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 10/25/2023

#CustomerIntent: As a programmer, I need to create metadata artifacts for 3270 applications.
---

# Designing Metadata Artifacts for 3270 Applications 

This guide shows how to design metadata artifacts for 3270 applications and save these artifacts as Host Integration Server Definition XML (HIDX) files and C# classes for Host Integration Server.

## Capture Screens

In this mode, you mark an item on each 3270 screen that uniquely identifies that screen. For example, you might specify a line of text or a more complex set of conditions, such as specific text and a non-empty field. You can either record these screens over a live connection to the host server, or import this information from an IBM Basic Mapping Support (BMS) map. The live connection uses a TN3270 emulator for connecting to the host. Each connector action must map to a single task that starts with connecting to your session and ends with disconnecting from your session.

1. If you haven't already, open the 3270 Design Tool. On the toolbar, select **Capture** so that you enter Capture mode.

> 1. From the **Session** menu, select **Host Settings**. Enter the information for your TN3270E server settings, and then select **OK**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the **Session** menu, select **Host Settings**. Enter the information for your TN3270E server settings, and select **OK**.
```

However, if you try saving changes to the sample RAP file or generating an HIDX file from the sample RAP file while the file stays in the design tool's installation folder, you might get an 
"access denied" error. By default, the design tool installs in your Program Files folder without elevated permissions. If you get an error, try one of these solutions:

* Copy the sample file to a different location.
* Run the design tool as an administrator.
* Make yourself the owner for the SDK folder.

## Test your method

1. To run your method against the live host, while still in Methods mode, press the F5 key, or from the design tool's toolbar, select **Test**.

   > [!TIP]
   > 
   > You can change modes at any time. On the **File** menu, select **Tools**, and then select the mode you want: **Use Minimal Progress Form** and **Chain Methods**

1. Enter your parameters' values, and select **OK**.

1. To continue to the next screen, select **Next**.

1. When you're finished, select **Done**, which shows your output parameter values.

<a name="add-metadata-integration-account"></a>

## Generate and upload HIDX file

> When you're ready, generate the HIDX file so you can upload to your integration account for Logic Apps Consumption or under Artifacts/Maps for Logic Apps Standard. The 3270 Design Tool creates the HIDX file in a new subfolder where you saved your RAP file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're ready, generate the HIDX file. The 3270 Design Tool creates the HIDX file in a new subfolder where you saved your RAP file. You can then upload the HIDX file to your integration account that's linked to a Consumption or Standard logic app resource. Or, you can upload directly to your Standard logic app resource through the **Artifacts** section under **Maps** on your resource menu. 
```

---

> title: "Designing Metadata Artifacts for 3270 Applications"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Designing Metadata Artifacts for 3270 Applications
```

description: Designing Metadata Artifacts for 3270 Applications with the 3270 Design Tool
author: haroldcampos
ms.author: "hcampos"

> ms.prod: "host-integration-server"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.prod: host-integration-server
```

ms.topic: how-to

> ms.date: "10/17/2023"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 10/17/2023
```

> #CustomerIntent: As a programmer I need to create metadata artifacts for 3270 applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#CustomerIntent: As a programmer, I need to create metadata artifacts for 3270 applications.
```

---

# Designing Metadata Artifacts for 3270 Applications 

> In this article, we will show you how to design Metadata Artifacts for 3270 Applications. Metadata artifacts are saved as Host Integration Server Definition XML (HIDX) files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article shows how to design metadata artifacts for 3270 applications and save these artifacts as Host Integration Server Definition XML (HIDX) files.
```
